---
layout: default
title: Observing a Constellation Discussion
---

For this discussion, we’re venturing outside to observe a constellation firsthand. This is a chance for us to practice using tools like a star wheel or Stellarium-Web with the real night sky. Sharing this experience with a friend or family member will make it even more enjoyable. So grab a coat, a cell phone, and a friend and head outside! 

- **Select and Observe a Constellation:** Head outside on a clear evening to observe a constellation. Use aids like a [star wheel](https://storage.googleapis.com/avh-agli/agli/starwheel/index.html) or [Stellarium-Web](https://stellarium-web.org/) to assist you in locating constellations in the sky. Good choices would include Ursa Major, Cassiopeia, Orion (winter), Leo (spring), Cygnus (summer), Pegasus (fall), or any other prominent constellations you might recognize. 
- **Document Your Discovery:** Use a cell phone to capture a picture of the constellation. Don't worry, your photo of the constellation doesn't have to be awesome - but if you play with your camera settings a little and rest the cell phone on something solid, you'll be surprised how nice of a photo you can capture.
- **Share and Reflect:** Post your photo to the discussion board. Along with the picture, include a brief description naming the constellation you chose, the date and time of your observation, and the tools you used to find it. Reflect on any challenges you faced in finding the constellation and describe how you overcame them.

**Having Weather Issue?** No need to email me. Just post a note to the discussion board that you are having bad weather (I'll give you temporary credit). Then keep an eye on the forecast and observe the constellation on the next available clear night. Then you can go back to the discussion and post your update with a photo. Ok, thanks - I'm excited to see what you observe.
