---
layout: default
title: Sky Cultures Discussion
---

Let's explore the many unique ways that the night sky was interpreted by cultures around the world. To aid us on this exploration, we will use the incredible [Figures in the Sky](https://avheuv.github.io/skyculture/) interactive website. The website will probably work best on computers (rather than mobile devices) and it may be a little confusing at first, so check out my brief [Introduction to Figures in the Sky](https://youtu.be/Z9MaQU5uXOA) video.

- Navigate the Website: Begin by familiarizing yourself with the website's features. Explore its interactive sky maps, focusing on the section "The same sky, different figures" which highlights how individual stars are used in many different constellations across different cultures.
- Select and Share a Non-Western Constellation: Identify a constellation from a non-Western culture that resonates with you or piques your curiosity. Take a screenshot of this constellation as depicted on the website.
- Reflect on Your Exploration: After your exploration, contribute to our discussion board with a post that includes your screenshot and completes the following reflection prompts:
  - "This was cool because..." Share what you found interesting, surprising, or particularly engaging about the constellation you chose and the website's presentation of different astronomical cultures.
  - "This makes me wonder..." Reflect on any new questions or thoughts this exploration sparked. For example, consider how this diversity in celestial interpretation affects our understanding of the universe or what it reveals about the intersection between astronomy and culture.

I encourage you to delve into the shared skies that have inspired humanity for millennia, inviting us to reflect on our place within the universe. This discussion offers a platform to appreciate how, despite the vast differences in our backgrounds and histories, the stars above us remain a constant source of wonder and storytelling. Share your discoveries and insights on the discussion board, and let's enrich our understanding of the night sky's cultural tapestry.

