---
layout: default
title: Life in the Universe Debate
---

This discussion will be a lively debate on the existence of life beyond our planet. To make things more interesting, you'll be adopting a unique, randomly assigned persona for the duration of our debate. These personas, ranging from the whimsical to the outlandish, are meant to inject a dose of creativity and fun into our discussion.

- Adopt Your Persona: Visit the [persona-assigning website](https://storage.googleapis.com/avh-lessons/personas.html) to discover the persona you will embody. Commit to this persona, as it will be the lens through which you participate in our debate. A broad diversity of characters will ensure a lively and multifaceted discussion.
- Participate in the Debate: With your persona in mind, join the conversation on our course discussion board. Present your arguments for or against the existence of extraterrestrial life, staying true to the perspective of your assigned character. How would they view the universe and the possibility of other life forms?
- Interact With Respect: As you encounter and engage with your classmates' personas and their arguments, strive for constructive and respectful exchanges. The objective is to maintain a discussion that is both stimulating and enjoyable, without crossing into disrespect or excessive negativity.

Participation in this debate requires more back-and-forth than our typical discussions. **Please read and respond to at least three of your classmates.**
