---
layout: default
title: Space Quotes Discussion
---

The study of astronomy can be a source of inspiration that causes us to reflect on our place in the cosmos. For this discussion, let's channel that inspiration by connecting an amazing image of space with an inspiring space-related quote. For example, [check out this image](https://storage.googleapis.com/avh-lessons/spacequote.png) to see what I mean.

- Choose Your Muse: Begin by selecting a quote about space that resonates with your own views on space, astronomy, or our place in the universe. Some of the most quotable scientists include Carl Sagan, Neil deGrasse Tyson, Stephen Hawking, Albert Einstein, and Richard Feynman.
- Create Your Visual: Transform your chosen quote into a compelling visual. Let your creativity flow as you design a piece that not only showcases the quote but also incorporates some amazing astronomical imagery. (Use whatever free editing tool that you're comfortable with - even if that is just Google Docs.)
- Share and Reflect: Post your creation to the discussion board. Alongside your visual, include a brief explanation of why you chose this quote and how it encapsulates your perspective on astronomy. What about this quote speaks to you, and how does it reflect your views on the exploration and understanding of the cosmos?

After you post your own space quote, browse the discussion board to explore the creations of your classmates. Do you see some that you like? Then tell your classmate that you think their creation is cool. This is just an informal chance for us to share our creations and encourage one another. 
